Remember this diagram.
Well in this diagram there is an important piece missing.
I told you about the creation phase.
That is when we set the global object and the this keyword and they equal each other.
And then I told you that the second phase which is the execution phase is while we just run our code
well in this diagram there is an important piece missing.
This white line actually divides these two phases and in the creation phase we have one more step.
We have something called hoisting so let's look at what this does hoisting is the behavior of moving
the variables or function declarations to the top of their respective environments during compilation
phase.
Variables are partially hoisted and function declarations are hoisted.
All right.
Did you get any of that.
No that was a little bit confusing so let's go through some code.
If I create a console log here and just to make things clear and I'll just say one like this so we know
what's happening and in here we'll have a variable.
Teddy and Teddy will equal to equal to bear.
It's a cute name and then we'll also have a function and let's say sing and the sing function sings
beautifully.
Oh la la la.
Beautiful song.
Now hoist thing what it does during the creation phase of our global execution context.
Well it does something like this.
What do you think will happen if I console da log Teddy.
Here I run this I get on the fight for Teddy.
Ok now this might not surprise you.
And if you've been working with JavaScript This is normal right.
It's undefined but in most languages it doesn't work like this.
Because in javascript I can also run the function like this.
Sing even before I have written it down.
If I click Run I see that I have.
Oh la la la And this is due to hoisting it is the JavaScript engine allocating memory for the variables
and functions that it sees in your code during the creation phase before it executes it.
So what happens underneath the hood is that during the creation face the JavaScript engine is going
to look through the code and as soon as it sees two things either the VAR keyword or the function keyword.
It's going to say oh let me allocates a memory because this guy over here he's gonna about his.
He's gonna need some memory so it's going to do something like this.
It's going to say hey variable Teddy.
That's going to be undefined.
I don't know what it is yet but I know that we're gonna have to have a variable Teddy so assign it undefined
for now.
And that's an actual javascript type.
It's a reserved word because it's something in JavaScript and then same with function.
It's almost like this function gets moved up here saying hey there's a function here.
Let's add this to memory because well we're gonna use it.
And underneath the hood This is what it might look like with hoisting where Teddy is now undefined because
the JavaScript engine when an executes the code during the creation phase we already knew that Teddy
was gonna be a variable.
We don't know what it is yet.
It is not there but it's undefined so it gives us undefined.
So that's what I mean when I said variables are partially hoisted we hoist the variable but not the
right side not the actual value we just assign it on defined functions are fully hoisted.
That means this function declaration was during the creation phase assigned a location in memory and
you can think of it this way where anytime we call saying we know where this piece of text is in memory
so that if we call thing we can run that function.
And as you can see it's working.
Now let's test some of our assumptions that I just told you.
If we move this back to where it was and we remove Teddy undefined from here and go back to that code
what I told you was that as soon as the JavaScript engine sees var or function it's going to hoist it
and make space for it in memory.
So what if I do something like this where I add a bracket to the function over here.
So the JavaScript engine no longer sees function as the first word.
Instead it sees a bracket then a function.
What do you think will happen here if I hit play I get a reference here.
Singh is not defined because it doesn't hoisted because the first thing it sees wasn't a far wasn't
a function well.
This was not hoisted.
So we get Singh is not defined.
What about this.
And this is something that we're going to talk about later on.
But if I change this to a cost which is a new E6 syntax now with this cost keyword or let that doesn't
get hoisted.
Remember the rule is it's either var or function.
So as soon as it sees let it actually will air out.
Now in this ripple it won't give me an error but if I open up the console here and copy our code
and run it I'll get Teddy is not defined and in most languages where there isn't hoisting.
That's what would happen we wouldn't be able to use variables or functions before we actually render
the compiler won't know anything about it.
Now unlike what I told you initially the compiler isn't actually moving these lines of code.
It's not physically moving variable Teddy all the way up or function all the way up.
It looks like it may but what it's doing is simply having one pass through the code and saying reserve
memory or assigned memory into this space.
If we look at our diagram with hoisting during our global execution phase we're simply saying Hey we're
gonna.
It looks like we're gonna have a few functions and a few variables.
Can you allocate some memory for us here.
Just get us ready for the program about to run therefore when we see console log Teddy.
Here the JavaScript engine is during its execution phase is going to say hey can you grab Teddy from
memory and when it looks at Teddy in memory it's assigned undefined for now because it hasn't been assigned
a new value and that is a key distinction especially when it comes to functions we have function declarations
like the one that we saw here where function is the first word on a line or we have something like function
expressions that is we can create a variable sing too.
That equals function and this function is going to sing something else.
Who.
La la.
There you go.
This is a function expression
this
is a function declaration.
Now what do you think this piece of code does when it comes to hoisting well during the creation phase.
This variable is going to be hoisted up here and it's going to be assigned undefined.
So with the function expression until the execution phase reaches it that is it has hoisted everything
and now we're in the second part where we start running the code line by line with a function expression
is only going to be run after it was defined.
So I can't do sing to here.
I'll get an error.
It's not a function but if I move this line after we assign it
it's working for us and if we go back
and just console log sing to instead of running it with the brackets I get undefined because sing too
was hoisted so to review with our global execution context.
We have a few things that happen.
We have the global object and this object during the creation phase that gets assigned and then during
the execution phase we run our code.
But it's important to remember that during this creation phase we also have this act of hoisting something
that's quite unique to JavaScript where we move anytime we see the function or the VAR keywords as the
first items on the line.
We allocate space for them in our heap to make sure that the JavaScript engine is ready for the execution.
So now that we've gotten that done let's do a fun little exercise.